---
layout: post
title: "Musika"
date: 2024-11-30 10:00:00 +0000
categories: AI
tags: [Research, Data, Music, Audio]
---

I launched this project to realize a new way for users to discover and interact with music. Normally , users listen to music in a fixed way. An artists produces a single/ album, and the user creates playlists of their favorites. A recommendation algorithm sugests other tracks that the user may like. 
In my view, this is a limited way in discovering music. 

Let's say you have a hip hop playlist. What happens if you mix hip hop wih rap. Or jazz with reggae ?
There are infinitie possibilities of mashing up different melodies , with other genres/ tracks , perhaps lesser known, that will create a new track, every time you use the app. 

The first stage is to creae mashups of EDM tracks . This was chosen because EDM itself has subgenres, is primarily rythmic, and has no lyrics. Mixing electronic music already gives a viable proof of concept.

The following list are general features that I would eventually want to implement : 

* Mashup of songs in the same or different genres. Use a Music transformer to produces precussions used for transitions.
(Train a Siamese Network for similarity score , and another neural network to segment tracks / predict compatible pairs based on labeled examples of successful cross genre mashups.)

* Cue tracking to detect patterns , sections for sampling, that can be used for rythmic tracks. EDM DJing specifically
(eg Daft Punk) . Equally , Chord Progression can be used for harmonic genres Jazz / Piano 

* Covers of songs. Voice overlay of personal/ other artists on top of different artists' background music 

* Instrument Separation and Replacement: Use source separation techniques (e.g., Spleeter) to isolate tracks, allowing users to swap instruments or add effects.

* AI-Enhanced Effects: Integrate AI for real-time effects like adaptive reverb, smart equalization, or creative distortions tailored to the user’s preferences.

* Audio tracks played on short-videos or images based on analyzing the content of the image/video


